Q3 Marketing objectives (#6160)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/handbook/small-teams/marketing/objectives.mdx

* **Objective**:
    * Increase word-of-mouth growth by:
      1. Showcasing new features by acting as the newsroom of PostHog
      2. Being an authority and vital resource on building successful products.

* **Goals:**
    * Nail Twitter and content distribution (**Owner:** Charles)
    * Make PostHog for Startups the default choice for technical founders (**Owner:** Joe)
    * Scale the newsletter to thousands of engaged subscribers (**Owner:** Andy)

>     * Create and execute a community plan (**Owner:** Lior)

Author: @Lior539 FYI, going to make this change unless there's an objection? Roadmap feels a bit more actionable / accurate

>     * Create and execute a community plan (**Owner:** Lior)

Reviewer: sounds good to me

    * Ship printed PMF guide with a distribution plan (**Owner:** Lottie)
    * Continue to grow SEO traffic and improve docs (**Owners:** Andy, Ian & Lior)

* **Rationale:**
    * Previously we've set metric-centric goals. This made sense when business-as-usual work drove growth easily, but we feel marketing and content needs to become more mission driven to drive long-term bottom-up growth. We still monitor several metrics, but we treat them as indicators of progress rather than discrete goals.

>     * Our gut instinct is that, while community is a very hard problem to solve, getting it right might be the thing that unlocks our next surge in growth. An engaged and happpy community is a stimulant for word-of-mouth growth. The longer we wait, the harder it'll be to make it work.

Author: ```suggestion
    * Our gut instinct is that, while community is a very hard problem to solve, getting it right might be the thing that unlocks our next surge in growth. An engaged and happpy community is a stimulant for word-of-mouth growth. The longer we wait, the harder it'll be to make it work. Community is not a monolith – it includes all sorts of dimensions, including social, content, and direct engagement via Slack, the website etc.
```

* **Objective**:
    * Increase word-of-mouth growth by:

>       1. Acting as the newsroom of PostHog to showcase new PostHog features.

Author: ```suggestion
      1. Showcasing new features by acting as the newsroom of PostHog
```

      2. Being an authority and vital resource on building successful products.

* **Goals:**
    * Nail Twitter and content distribution (**Owner:** Charles)
    * Make PostHog for Startups the default choice for technical founders (**Owner:** Joe)
    * Scale the newsletter to thousands of engaged subscribers (**Owner:** Andy)
    * Create and execute a community plan (**Owner:** Lior)

>     * Ship printed PMF guide with a distribution plan (**Owner:** Lottie)

Author: ```suggestion
    * Ship printed PMF guide with a distribution plan (**Owner:** Lottie)
    * Continue to grow SEO traffic and improve docs (**Owners:** Andy, Ian & Lior)
```

* **Objective**:
    * Increase word-of-mouth growth by:

>       1. being an authority and vital resource on building successful products.
>       2. creating a world-class community experience.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      1. sharing the products and features we've built with the world.
      2. being an authority and vital resource on building successful products.
```
Community hasn't been a focus for us, and this quarter seems to be just planning, so it seems a little weird to have it as a key part of our word of mouth growth.

Something about sharing what we've built ties better to Twitter, internal content, as well as community.

Author: Fair. I like this.

Author: Maybe we change first one to use the "newsroom of PostHog" given we use it elsewhere?

Reviewer 2: Yes, I do like newsroom

> * **Goals:**

Reviewer 2: Remember when we said we were spread too thin with our goals last quarter? We have seemingly the same amount of goals, plus "business as usual".

Author: I think the difference, if people agree with this approach, is these goals have owners, whereas before they were defuse and non-specific.

On reflection, though, I think:

1. We need a BAU goal, such as "Continue to grow SEO traffic and improve documentation".  
2. We should trim the list a little, either by dropping some or combining them – i.e. PostHog for Startups IS our community plan.

Open to ideas here as I think it's important to get this right rather than waving through stuff we're not 100% behind.

Reviewer 3: I think the community should be the startups program. I think we can drop content discovery to being a Web & Docs function. That brings us to three without losing anything IMHO. 

Regarding ownership, happy to have single owners (and be the single owner for startups) but I personally also think we work well when collaborating. New goal: SYNERGY.

```
    * Nail Twitter and content distribution (**Owner:** Charles)
    * Create and execute a plan to make PostHog for Startups the default community for technical founders (**Owner:** Joe & Lior)
    * Scale the newsletter to thousands of engaged subscribers (**Owner:** Andy & Ian)
```

That said, I care less about planning the work and more about doing the work here. I feel we have a consensus direction, so I'm happy to wave things through a bit now.

Author: Need to add Lottie's as well and the BAU one, but I think the above makes sense. Thoughts @jamesefhawkins @Lior539?

Reviewer: I dont have strong opinions on this. Happy to go with @joethreepwood 's suggestion, or keep as is.

> Remember when we said we were spread too thin with our goals last quarter? 

The new "goals" read to me more like "projects", so this is why I don't really have an issue with keeping it as is. I think it's fine for us to have many projects 

I dont think of them as "goals". The "mission" is the goal

Reviewer 2: I'm fine with dropping internal discovery and just working with website & docs where needed. I think a lot of that will be driven by them.

>     * Nail Twitter and content distribution (**Owner:** TBD, maybe Charles?)

Author: ```suggestion
    * Nail Twitter and content distribution (**Owner:** Charles)
```

>     * Nail internal content discovery and engagement (**Owner:** Ian with Website & Docs)

Author: ```suggestion
```

    * Make PostHog for Startups the default choice for technical founders (**Owner:** Joe)
    * Scale the newsletter to thousands of engaged subscribers (**Owner:** Andy)

>     * Create and execute a community plan (**Owner:** Lior)

Reviewer 4: I think "create a plan" as a goal needs to become "<the plan>" over the next few days. *zero* problem if you change it once you start / make a mistake. Worried otherwise we'll be in paralysis by analysis mode.

Reviewer: Sounds good to me. No idea what this entails, but excited to figure it out!

    * Ship printed PMF guide with a distribution plan (**Owner:** Lottie)

* **Rationale:**

>     * Previously we've set metric-centric goals. This made sense when BAU work drove growth easily, but we feel marketing and content needs to become more mission driven to drive long-term bottom-up growth. We still monitor several metrics, but we treat them as indicators of progress rather than discrete goals.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * Previously we've set metric-centric goals. This made sense when business-as-usual work drove growth easily, but we feel marketing and content needs to become more mission driven to drive long-term bottom-up growth. We still monitor several metrics, but we treat them as indicators of progress rather than discrete goals.
```
I did not know what this meant

>     * Our gut instinct is that, while community is a very hard problem to solve, getting it right might be the thing that unlocks our next surge in growth. An engaged and happpy community is a stimulant for word-of-mouth growth. The longer we wait, the harder it'll be to make it work.

Reviewer 2: I think figuring out social is probably the thing that unlocks our next surge of growth. For example, this [tweet](https://twitter.com/dannypostmaa/status/1670412104875282433?s=20) drove a massive amount of signups. Many competitors and similar "analytics" companies are entirely focused on driving growth through social.

Community is a much larger hill to climb. It is very likely that if we want to do it, we will have to nuke our support community and start again. No one comes there for non-support or PostHog related reasons which a successful community would require.

Author: To your point, I'm kind of wondering if we're just thinking about "community" in the wrong way – i.e. our language is around building, planning, etc., but it's more like a garden you water. To that end, our goals should be (and kind of already are) things that will help that grow – e.g. Nailing Twitter, which is very much a community, startups program (a potential community), newsletter (another community branch), and so on.

Reviewer 2: > Nailing Twitter, which is very much a community, startups program (a potential community), newsletter (another community branch), and so on.

A healthy, non-support driven community is much more likely to come out of one of these rather than the Slack support community we have now.

> 
>     * Improving docs and growing SEO content are BAU tasks we're always progressing alongside our wider quarterly goals. We track output metrics to ensure we're not neglecting this work. All content writers are expected to contribute.

Author: ```suggestion
```

>     * Paid ads also fall under BAU. We're working towards making paid ad spend as lean as possible, so we can divert budget to other more leveraged activities.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * Paid ads also fall under business-as-usual. We're working towards making paid ad spend as lean as possible, so we can divert budget to other more leveraged activities.
```

>     * Paid ads also fall under business-as-usual. We're working towards making paid ad spend as lean as possible, so we can divert budget to other more leveraged activities.

Author: ```suggestion
    * Paid ads fall under business-as-usual. We're working towards making paid ad spend as lean as possible, so we can divert budget to other more leveraged activities.
```
